WIP: Add community portal (#281)
mautic/mautic-community-handbook: docs/mautic_community_portal/signing_in_and_configuring_your_profile.rst

Signing in and configuring your profile
#######################################

.. vale off

In this article, learn how to sign in and set up your user profile.

.. vale on

If you prefer you can watch this in the following video:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GWc9ocTGwoc" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

.. raw:: html

    <br><br>

Logging in
**********
The first thing to mention is that with the new Mautic Community Portal, you can use your existing forum username and password. So if you click this button, it opens up the dialog to allow you to log in with your Mautic Community Forum login.

> .. image:: images/login-mautic-account.png

Reviewer: Please update the image and the alt-text.

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

.. raw:: html

    <br><br>

If you don't yet have a login, it allows you to create one, and you can then use those credentials on the forum as well.

> .. image:: images/sign-up-log-in.png

Reviewer: Update the image and alt text here please.

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

.. raw:: html

    <br><br>

> .. vale off    

Reviewer: Please fix the issue rather than turn off Vale

> If you can't remember your password you can use the option to send a password reset request. If you have problems creating an account, make sure you are using a unique username, name, and email. If you still get stuck, please ask in #community on :xref:`slack`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you can't remember your password, use the option to send a password reset request. If you have problems creating an account, make sure you are using a unique username, name, and email. If you still get stuck, please ask in #community on :xref:`slack`.
```

.. vale on

> Accept the terms and conditions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accept the Terms and Conditions
```

*******************************

> .. vale off

Reviewer: Why do we turn Vale off here?

The first time you log in - and any time thereafter when there have been substantial changes to the terms and conditions - you must accept them before you proceed. To do this, review the terms and conditions and, at the bottom of the page, click 'I agree with these terms'. You can't continue using the platform if you refuse the terms, and a popup gives you the option to delete your account if you wish.

..vale on

> .. image:: images/accept-terms-and-conditions.png

Reviewer: Please can we update the image and the alt-text?

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

Certain cookies permit features on the portal which you can choose to accept or reject on the cookie popup. It's important to understand that certain features such as embedded note taking won't work if you don't accept the relevant cookies. A prompt notifies you of this if you come across resources like this, to review and update your settings to use that feature if your current setting restricts it.

> .. image:: images/cookie-consent.png

Reviewer: Please update image and alt-text.

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

> .. raw:: html

Reviewer: Why is the block here, are we missing a video or something similar?

    <br><br>

Setting language preferences
============================

> .. vale off

Reviewer: Why is Vale turned off here?

.. vale on

Claiming membership
*******************
Once logged in you have the option to claim a Mautic membership.

There is a :xref:`membership-option` as a way to support the Mautic community while also being able to join in with governance processes like voting. You can become an individual member for $100 a year or a pro rated amount based on where you pay taxes, and you can become a corporate member. Read more about the :xref:`membership-option` and explore the perks of corporate membership in this :xref:`corporate-membership`.

If you are already a member of Mautic, you can select this option to match up your membership with your account on the community portal. This allows you to participate in votes, engage in the General Assembly, create proposals, and so forth.

You can watch more about claiming your membership status in this short video:

.. raw:: html

    <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9kOa759Y4eQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> .. raw:: html

Reviewer: Is this necessary?

Reviewer 2: This syntax is added right before a <br> tag, so it adds a space between the image and the text.

    <br><br>

Mautic maintains a list of who is actually an active member at this point in time, synchronized on a weekly basis.

Unable to claim membership
==========================

> .. vale off

Reviewer: Why is vale being turned off here?

Reviewer 2: because of the email text

> If you're a member and you're not able to claim your membership as you would expect, please drop a message on Slack in the community channel, because it might be that the email address you used when you paid on Open Collective doesn't actually match the email address that you use on the community portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're a member and you're not able to claim your membership as you would expect, please drop a message on Slack in the #community channel, because it might be that the email address you used when you paid on Open Collective doesn't actually match the email address that you use on the community portal.
```

Some manual tweaks can fix this quickly, so drop a message in the channel and the team can take a look.

.. vale on

Managing your account
**********************

> Check the dropdown menu item underneath your name. This allows you to customize your account, your public profile, and also see notifications and direct messages. If you're an administrator, you access the administrator portal here, too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the dropdown menu item underneath your name. This allows you to customize your account, your public profile, your timezone, and also see notifications and direct messages. 
```

Admins access via a yellow bar at the top of the page now, updating to reflect that.

> .. vale off

Reviewer: Why is Vale being turned off?

My Account
==========

> This is where you can configure your avatar that others see in the portal whenever you engage here. You can configure your email address and all of your details and which locale you prefer to browse the website using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is where you can configure your avatar that others see in the portal whenever you engage here. You can configure your email address and all of your details and which locale you prefer to browse the website using, along with your timezone.
```

.. vale on

Notifications
=============
The notification settings is important. This allows you to actually control what you get notified about within the community and how frequently.

> .. image:: images/notifications.png

Reviewer: Please update the image + write appropriate alt text here.

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

> .. vale off

Reviewer: Why is vale off here?

===============
Do you want to allow anyone to send you a direct message? This allows anyone to send you a direct message on this platform, even if you don't follow them.

Deselect the option if you only want people that you follow to send you a direct message.

.. vale off

My Interests
============

.. vale on

This allows you to decide what topics you'd like to see in your timeline. It's recommended to leave them all selected and if it becomes too noisy you can turn them off in the future.

.. vale off

My Data
=======
The 'My Data' section allows you to download all the information held on you in this system, and to delete your account.

My Public Profile
******************

Under 'My Public Profile' in the top user menu, this is what your profile looks like to the public.

.. vale on

Timeline
========

.. vale off

This shows all of the ways in which you have engaged across the portal by time, with a dropdown filter that allows you to only show certain types of activity. This section **isn't** visible to any other user than the logged in user themselves, because it can also contain items that should be visible only to that participant.

.. vale on

Activity
========

> .. image:: images/activity.png

Reviewer: Please update the image and alt text here.

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

> .. raw:: html

Reviewer: Why is the raw tag here? I think it's not needed.

    <br><br>

> Activity is showing the activity that you're involved in. This might include endorsing/supporting proposals, commenting on/creating resources, and so forth. Again it's filterable by type, but this shows on your public profile and other people can see it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activity is showing the activity that you're involved in. This might include liking/voting on proposals, commenting on/creating resources, and so forth. Again it's filterable by type, but this shows on your public profile and other people can see it.
```

Badges
======

> For those of you who like gamification, there are lots of badges available. Each badge explains how you can earn the badge, and there's different levels as well. Som have fun engaging in the platform and earning those levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those of you who like gamification, there are lots of badges available. Each badge explains how you can earn the badge, and there's different levels as well. Some have fun engaging in the platform and earning those levels.
```

Follows and followers
=====================
The follows tab shows the resources and individuals that you follow. Following a participant or a group means that you receive notifications about the activity done by those participants or groups on the platform. Depending on settings you may also need to follow someone to direct message them.

.. vale off

The followers tab shows a list of participants and groups which follow your user account.

.. vale on

Groups
======

.. vale off

> The group section contains all the groups that you belong to. For more information on groups refer to the [dedicated page][https://contribute.mautic.org/community-portal/groups].

Reviewer: Link which needs to be replaced with an internal link here.

Understanding the fields on the user profile
********************************************

.. vale on

When viewing a profile in the front end, there are some fields on the left hand side underneath the avatar. Here's what they mean.

> .. image:: images/profile-fields.png

Reviewer: Image needs updating here.

    :alt: VSCode screenshot showing how to change branches
    :width: 600px
    :align: center

> .. raw:: html

Reviewer: Is the raw tag needed here?
